# Deployment guide for the combined FHIR-module + UI setup

This is a step by step guide on how to setup and run/deploy the docker container containing fot the FHIR-module and the UI to control it.

## Initial setup

The container will be deployed using a Docker container. Docker has to be installed and running on the host machine. The compose file to run the container is [`compose.yaml`](../compose.yaml).

For the setup to work correctly, some information, specific to the given depolyment and setup must be manually specified. This is done in **two files**.

- `.env` file at the root of the repository (same folder as the the [`compose.yaml`](../compose.yaml) file)
- `shared_config.json` file mounted to the container using [`compose.yaml`](../compose.yaml)

### .env file setup

To prepare the environment variables needed by the container. Create a `.env` file at the root of the repository (same folder as the the [`compose.yaml`](../compose.yaml) file)

As far as contents of the file go, you can use the example below as a starting point:

```shell

ENVIRONMENT=LOCAL_TEST
PROM_REMOTE_URL=
PROM_REMOTE_USER=
PROM_REMOTE_PASS=

GRAFANA_LOGS_URL=
GRAFANA_LOGS_USERNAME=
GRAFANA_LOGS_PASSWORD="

PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=production
BACKEND_API_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5000"
PROMETHEUS_URL="http://prometheus:9090"
NEXTAUTH_URL="http://localhost:3000"
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=
AUTH_TRUST_HOST="true"

BLAZE_URL="http://test-blaze:8080/fhir"
MIABIS_BLAZE_URL="http://miabis-blaze:8080/fhir"
MIABIS_ON_FHIR="True"

REGISTER_ALLOWED=false
PASSWORD_MIN_LENGTH=8
PASSWORD_MAX_LENGTH=128
PASSWORD_REQUIRE_UPPERCASE=true
PASSWORD_REQUIRE_LOWERCASE=true
PASSWORD_REQUIRE_NUMBERS=true
PASSWORD_REQUIRE_SPECIAL_CHARS=true
PASSWORD_SPECIAL_CHARS="!@#$%^&*()_+-=[]{}|;:,.<>?"

```

The file consists of several sections, not all of which are important and can be deleted if not needed.

#### Logging environment variables

The following part of the file is dedicated to the monitoring and observability functionality using Grafana. If this will not be used by the deployment, this part can be omitted.

- The `ENVIRONMENT` variable serves to distinguish multiple deployments sending data to the same Grafana instance
- The `PROM` prefixed variables are used by Prometheus, to monitor system health
- The `GRAFANA_LOGS` prefixed variables are used by Loki, to push the log data to Grafana to de visualized

Details on how to get the values for the variables are found in [`MONITORING.md`](./MONITORING.md)

```shell
ENVIRONMENT=LOCAL_TEST
PROM_REMOTE_URL=
PROM_REMOTE_USER=
PROM_REMOTE_PASS=

GRAFANA_LOGS_URL=
GRAFANA_LOGS_USERNAME=
GRAFANA_LOGS_PASSWORD=
```

#### UI Environment variables

These are the values used by the UI. When deployed as combined container, the pre-filled values do not need to be changed. If the [`compose.yaml`](../compose.yaml) would be modified to use different ports or the names of the containers would change, the URLs need to be adjusted too. The only value that needs to be filled-in is **NEXTAUTH_SECRET** used to authenticate the users in the system. Changign this value later will cause all logged-in users to be logged-out since their token will be invalidated.

The value can be generated by:

```shell
openssl rand -base64 32
```

```shell
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=production
BACKEND_API_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5000"
PROMETHEUS_URL="http://prometheus:9090"
NEXTAUTH_URL="http://localhost:3000"
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=
AUTH_TRUST_HOST="true"
```

#### Backend Environment variables

These values are used bu the fhir-module to configure its work.

- `BLAZE_URL` is the URL for the Blaze-store container. If not defined, sync to blaze is disabled
- `MIABIS_BLAZE_URL` is the URL for the Miabis Blaze container. If not defined, sync to MIABIS format is not possible. When defined `MIABIS_ON_FHIR` should be set to **True**
- `MIABIS_ON_FHIR` is the flag saying if the fhir-module should perform also sync to MIABIS format and its respective blaze store. When set to **True** `MIABIS_BLAZE_URL` needs to be defined too

```shell
BLAZE_URL="http://test-blaze:8080/fhir"
MIABIS_BLAZE_URL="http://miabis-blaze:8080/fhir"
MIABIS_ON_FHIR="True"
```
#### Registration-related environment variables
This group is responsible for setting up the constraints on the password, etc. Registration is allowed/forbidden using the `REGISTER_ALLOWED` value

``` shell
REGISTER_ALLOWED=false
PASSWORD_MIN_LENGTH=8
PASSWORD_MAX_LENGTH=128
PASSWORD_REQUIRE_UPPERCASE=true
PASSWORD_REQUIRE_LOWERCASE=true
PASSWORD_REQUIRE_NUMBERS=true
PASSWORD_REQUIRE_SPECIAL_CHARS=true
PASSWORD_SPECIAL_CHARS="!@#$%^&*()_+-=[]{}|;:,.<>?"
```

### shared_config.json setup

As the maps with the parsing rules and the paths to the data can change during the operation of the fhir-module, restarting the whole container to process and apply the changes in the configuration is not feasible.

The `shared_config.json` contains the current configuration of the parsing map paths to be used by the fhir-module.

The file needs to be bound to the container, the path from which it is bound is not important, however the name has to be preserved. An example of the content can be found in this repo [`shared_config.json`](../util/shared_config.json) 

``` json
{
  "ROOT_DIR": "/opt/records",
  "RECORDS_DIR_PATH": "/opt/records",
  "PARSING_MAP_PATH": "default_map.json",
  "MATERIAL_TYPE_MAP_PATH": "default_material_type_map.json",
  "MIABIS_MATERIAL_TYPE_MAP_PATH": "default_miabis_material_type_map.json",
  "SAMPLE_COLLECTIONS_PATH": "default_sample_collection.json",
  "BIOBANK_PATH": "default_biobank.json",
  "TYPE_TO_COLLECTION_MAP_PATH": "default_type_to_collection_map.json",
  "STORAGE_TEMP_MAP_PATH": "/opt/fhir-module/util/default_storage_temp_map.json",
  "MIABIS_STORAGE_TEMP_MAP_PATH": "default_miabis_storage_temp_map.json",
  "CSV_SEPARATOR": ";",
  "RECORDS_FILE_TYPE": "xml"
}
```

- `ROOT_DIR` (**must be set manually**) since the UI can browse the directories the fhir-module has access to, in order to select the directory from which the data are imported. The `ROOT_DIR` defines the highest level directory that can be selected in this way, to limit the users access to the other files of the container.
- `RECORDS_DIR_PATH` specifies the directory which contains the files to be processed. Must be within the `ROOT_DIR`
- `PARSING_MAP_PATH` path to the `.json` file containing the sample, condition and donor parsing maps
- `MATERIAL_TYPE_MAP_PATH` path to the file that maps materials
- `MIABIS_MATERIAL_TYPE_MAP_PATH` same like previous, but for mapping to miabis format
- `SAMPLE_COLLECTIONS_PATH` (**must be set manually**) specifies the existing collection within the organization. Sa these presumably do not change often, the path is set once manually
- `BIOBANK_PATH` (**must be set manually**) contains details about the biobank. Same reason as above for manual setup
- `TYPE_TO_COLLECTION_MAP_PATH` path to file that specifies how collection is inferred from the data. Mapping between value of selected attribute in the parsing map to one of the collections defined in `SAMPLE_COLLECTIONS_PATH`
- `STORAGE_TEMP_MAP_PATH` path to file that specified blaze mapping from biobank temperature values to standard ones
- `MIABIS_STORAGE_TEMP_MAP_PATH` same as above, but for MIABIS
- `CSV_SEPARATOR` self explanatory - character used to separate columns in the CSV format
- `RECORDS_FILE_TYPE` specifies file type of the records


Minimal example would be then:

```shell
{
  "ROOT_DIR": "/opt/test",
  "RECORDS_FILE_TYPE": "xml",
  "SAMPLE_COLLECTIONS_PATH": "default_sample_collection.json",
  "BIOBANK_PATH": "default_biobank.json"
}
```